# User Meeting November 2021

Date: 29-30th November, 11:30 - 14:30 (UK time)
Location: Zoom

Full agenda at https://www.mantidproject.org/Category_Users_Workshop_2021.html.
There is an initial section of talks about other projects and the TWG part kicks off at 13:00 (UK time).

This document exists to help coordinate building an agenda for the
TWG contributions to the user meeting.
The technical working group has a 90 minute slot on 30th November
where we need to provide some updates from our perspective.

## Ideas

Ideas for content/speakers:

- Introducing the TWG (Martyn): 10mins
- What has happened to the project, from a more technical slant, since the last meeting (Martyn): 15mins
  - Sample corrections
  - All the GUI work, drill, superplot, instrument viewer extensions.
  - Conda
- The idea of experiment api (xapi), that I spoke briefly in the last twg meetings. (ILL): 15mins

- General Q&A

Updates in facility update section of SWG:
- ILL new SANS, this we will demo to ANSTO in October already, but it might be interesting also for MLZ and PSI. (ILL) 15mins
- D7 technique, i.e. 10-axis polarization analysis, which is new to mantid. (ILL): 15mins

## Possible Agenda

Each 20 min slot is envisioned as 15 min presentation + 5 min Q/A

- 13:00 Introducing the Technical Working Group (Martyn Gigg)

- 13:10 What has happened and what to expect (Martyn Gigg)

 - 13:30 GUIs/projects using mantid as a library (Pete Peterson)

 - 13:50 Kinetic SANS Reduction (Gagik Vardanyan)

 - 14:10 ORNL release management process using a fork (Pete Peterson)
