Attendees: Tom, Pete, Sarah, Mial, Shervin, Anders

# Agenda

- Qt5 -> 6 [Mial]
- Jenkins -> Github Actions [Tom]
- Governance [Anders]

## Qt5 -> 6

- PR on conda-forge to fix cross-compilation linux -> arm mac, not yet merged. Should be merged by next release so won't be a blocker.
- Ability to render LaTeX as images already provided in code base. Trivial to remove google analytics JS.
- Darsh (ORNL) to switch ``qt-webengine`` to ``qttextbrowsers``
- Switch to Qt6 likely to be a priority during the next (6.16) release cycle.
- Tom to take over as point of contact for this project as Mial moves into the Epic workstream.

## Jenkins -> Github Actions

- We have functioning docker images and GHA workflow, using self hosted runners.
- Single unit test that fails if no limit on build threads. We currently restrict Jenkins to 28/32 to prevent this (we think).
- To have PR check up and running for linux build and test by the end of the week.
- Initially will be a non-required job on a pull request. Will run in parallel to the existing linux PR job.
- ILL revisiting structure of runners (they use Gitlab), new Gitlab server up and running by the end of the year. Might be possible to have nodes that can they can provide to mantid.
- Would be good to spread to risk to prevent cloud downtime.
- Ian to still provide support to dockerfiles, Glass to provide support in the future on build scripts.

## Governance

- Changes made following feedback from last time; feedback was that initial suggestions were over engineered.
- Anders has uploaded doc that contains simpler governance model - asking for feedback.
- Main change is that SWG -> Project WG (not happy with name, asking for suggestions)
- PWG: Helps with effective exchange of information between users and developers
- Membership: Membership will work better if not overlapping with TWG. Mixture of scientists and developers
- Question over what value the attendees are going to get out of the PWG, what will drive them to meet every month.
- Anders asks for names of people who could form the initial PWG.
- No strong reaction against PWG, but also no passionate advocation for.
- Shervin questions whether PWG could only meet once a year to organize the user meeting.
- Last year user meeting had a poor attendance, how can this be improved for next time? Colocate it with an existing conference?
- Pete suggests calling it a committee rather than a working group.
- Anders to rework proposals and solicit another round of feedback.
- Anders notes he is moving job to work at Diamond Light Source; will keep on pursuing this agenda.
