# TWG Minutes 17/03/2026

- **Attendees:** Pete, Tom, Remi, Mial

## Topics skipped

- Governance, Anders not present.
- Modularization, moved to maybe revisit section.

## Discussed Items

### GitHub Actions

- Linux + system test is working. Opens the door for all Linux self-hosted checks.
- Self-hosted checks to be in the same workflow to establish workflow hierarchy.
- Pete would like to split out user vs developer docs:
  - For dev docs, does it matter if docs do not pass unit tests? Dev doc changes only should skip tests (there is logic already in codebase; move this into GitHub workflow).
  - Could do dev docs on GitHub runners.
  - Doxygen publishes every push to `main` (if there are changes). Dev docs could do the same thing.
- By default we keep the last nightly (1 on Anaconda, on GitHub we keep 3). Pete would like to keep more than one on Anaconda. ISIS had an issue related to this recently - `mamba update` command does not work well. ORNL do a clean install in their workflow to avoid this, then keep the last N packages.
- Pete to share existing workflow that keeps the last N packages.
- Next step in the project is configuring self-hosted runners for the other operating systems - probably have Docker images for Windows, not Mac, as it is not sure this is possible.

### Qt6

- QScintilla2 - text editor within Mantid Workbench. Syntax highlighting, autocomplete, etc.
- Feedstock might be trivial to update - Tom plans to open a PR on the feedstock today or tomorrow.
- Turns out Ross already has a working build, described as a "short-term" fix. Tom to look into this.
- QtAssistant: Pete had a conversation on the Qt6 migration channel re. motivation for using `qtwebengine`, etc. Turns out ORNL IT have already solved the issue with using a web browser on their IDAaaS equivalent. Question is, are people OK with this? Answer is yes from ISIS and ILL.
- Doc package should still be optional, so you can use offline/online docs.
- Darsh to start the move to using only the system browser for help.
- Regarding MathJax - prefer JavaScript for scaling rather than images. Pete wants to switch to Sphinx Mermaid - enables flowcharts, sequence diagrams, Gantt diagrams, and more.
- If it happens soon enough, Qt6 will be Mantid v7.

### Forum

- Idea is lightening how much the Linode server does.
- Basically, can we get rid of the forum?
- Seems to be general consensus that we can remove it.
- Mial to put together an issue regarding what we move to, if moving away from the forum. Issue to be put on the roadmap.
- Meeting not quorate so not decision can be taken immediately.

### Pre-commit CI job

- Can we move to a workflow that runs on a GitHub-hosted runner?
- Does not seem possible to rerun pre-commit, short of pushing another commit.
- Tom suggests moving to a GitHub-hosted runner rather than using the pre-commit website.
- Pete suggests we move the pre-commit job to be ours, but keep the pre-commit update job as theirs - decision made to action this.
- Ideally, we want the commit run after merge conflicts to then block other PRs (Pete suggests running them simultaneously).
- Discussion about running to `prek`; sometimes pre-commit can take a few minutes.
- Downside is that `prek` is one guy, pre-commit has a development team.
- `Prek` decision pushed to the future - check with James on status.

### Python 3.12

- Tom intends to merge today.
- Ian and Tom to clean disk on build servers - Tom to contact.
- Pete to merge PR into `ornl-next` as quick as possible.

### Roadmap

- System tests to `ctest`. Issue on Jenkins where `ctest` was not reporting unit tests (was running them). Tom hopes that GitHub workflow PR will fix this. Nearly over the line.
- Instrument view: MVP complete a while ago. Instrument view is nearly feature complete; June is the pencilled-in completion date.
  - Might make next release; old one will be side by side.
  - Subsequent release: remove the old instrument view - might line up with version 7.
  - Remi to feed back; has started a document.
  - Pete to pull instrument view changes to `ORNL-next` so people have more exposure to it.
- Move from reStructuredText to MyST-flavoured Markdown.
  - Conversion has been done using a tool - docs provided.
  - Use of the tool has caught quite a few issues with existing reStructuredText docs.
  - MyST-flavoured Markdown docs are now rolled out, apart from the release notes due to the amalgamate script.
  - Due to the amalgamate script, there will have to be a hard switch between reStructuredText and Markdown.
  - Effort to turn Mantid Sphinx theme into a proper package - feedback has come in, fixes are there now it is in the nightly.
  - Few concept docs that need to be moved to respective API pages - redirects will be put in for people who have bookmarks.
- Mantid instruments memory improvements:
  - Instrument with lots of pixels - we instantiate every pixel. Lots of overhead.
  - Change has been made to reduce this overhead.
  - Feedback has been to extend this to tube detector.

### NOBUGS update

- Mantid dev meeting, Monday before NOBUGS start, whole day.
- Would it be in person only? In principle could do a hybrid for the afternoon - has not been requested though.

## Forward Actions

- Pete to share the existing workflow that keeps the last N packages on github/conda.
- Tom to look into Ross’s existing working Qt6 build. Or open a PR on the QScintilla2 feedstock.
- Darsh to start the move to using only the system browser for user docs.
- Mial to put together an issue on what to move to if the forum is removed, and put it on the roadmap.
- Agreement to move the pre-commit job to Mantid’s own workflow, while keeping the pre-commit update job on the external service.
- Check with James on the status of prek and revisit decision on adoption in the future.
- Ian and Tom to clean disk space on the build servers follow python update. Pete to merge python update into `ornl-next` as quickly as possible.
- Remi to provide feedback on instrument view and continue the document started.
- Pete to pull instrument view changes into `ornl-next` for wider exposure.
