Attendees: Tom, Pete, Sarah, Zach, Remi

# Agenda
- Update on NeXus refactor [Pete]
   - H5File
- Squash all PRs; link PRs in release notes? [Tom]
  - Improve the documentation for better release notes
  - Need for better quality release notes
  - Update notes for gatekeepers
-  Mantid Developer and User meetings 2025 [Sarah]
  - Tentative format/schedule
- Move to online installers?
  - [conda constructor](https://github.com/conda/constructor)
  - See [here](https://forum.mantidproject.org/t/how-to-install-on-linux/931)

# Agenda
- Can we move to online installers using [conda constructor](https://github.com/conda/constructor)? See [here](https://forum.mantidproject.org/t/how-to-install-on-linux/931) for motivation.
- should we squash all PRs?
- Can we link to PRs in release notes?
- Updating Python and Qt
- Update on Mac machines and new package
- Mantid Developer and User meetings 2025
- NeXus consolidation https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38332 (Pete leading effort)
- msvc and homebrew repos follow-up
- Question about Fitting engine status
- Pinning dependency versions during beta
- Review [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mantidproject/projects/47/views/1)
- AOB

Maybe revisit
- Anaconda channel quota
- Nexus file refactoring for reflectometry
- cxxtest
- Risk register
- [Community standards](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/community) according to github (Pete)
- NOBUGS 2026
