Present: Foxley, Peterson, Koshchii, Hampson

# Agenda
- v6.13.1 patch release went out [Tom]
- Qt5 to Qt6 needs to get moving again [Tom]
- NeXus consolidation finished [Pete]
- New instrument view PR still on going [Tom]
- Jenkins updates Java 17 going out of date [Sarah]
- Mantid draft agenda [Sarah]
  - Registration still open
- DevOps runner status [Sarah]
- MacOS intel version end of support [Sarah, Tom]
- Mantid strategy for modularization [Sarah]
   - Developer meeting topic
- Goverenace document [Pete, Sarah]
