Present: Pete, Tom, Remi, Servin, Zach

# Agenda
- Released moved to October 27 due to  packaging issues
- Move from qt5 to qt6 PR [Tom]
  - Pyside might be the preferred way to go
- New instrument view PR [Tom]
- Jenkins updates and onging issues
- Recommendation to move instrument specific code to external projects
  - Lighten the load of miantenance
  - Need to discuss options balancing general coding solutions with custom ones
- Python project template [Pete]
- MacOS intel version end of support [Tom]
- Goverenace document [Pete]
  - Sarah out this week

# AOB
- Developer meeting
  - Modularization strategy
