### Present
Sarah, Pete, Tom, Zach, Oleksandr, Mial, Shervin, Anders

# Status updates 
- Qt5 to Qt6 [Mial]: There is a PR ready in the pyqt conda-forge feedstock that is waiting for a maintainer review.
  Once this is merged the only blocker is PyQtWebengine, which isn't available for Qt6 on conda-forge.
  We can move over to Shiboken/PySide2 after moving to Qt6.
  - We discuessed three potential PyQtWebengine aternatives (see https://mantid.slack.com/files/U01P35PQ9SB/F0A3TDZ2068/qt6_qtwebengine_alternatives.pdf for more detail):
    1. ``QtTextBrowser``: does not support JavaScript/MathJax so we would need to render LaTeX equations using some tool.
    2. System browser: ORNL had problems with systems with shared home directories if a browser was already open in another session.
    3. Dual Qt5/Qt6 support: There is no way of knowing how long we will ahve to continue using Qt5 with this option.
  - **Decision** Sherivn to investigate using ``typts`` to render LaTex to facilitate using QtTextBrowser.
  - **Action** Set up a slack channel for Qt5 to Qt6 migration.
- rattler-build clean up issue [Pete]
  - versioningit issues fixed (should no longer see "uncommitted" in nightly version numbers)
  - merging recipe files together abandonned for the time being
- Move from Jenkins to GitHub actions [Tom]
  - Successfully able to spin up self-hosted github runners on cloud Linux machines.
  - Some quasielasticbayes related systemtests failing
  - Not sure how to get docker volumes working, may not be needed due to test files residing on local mirrors
  - Integration with Pixi can be carried out once https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pull/40447 is merged.

# Discussion
- Doxygen PR check cannot be both required and skippable using file filter [Tom]
  - **Action** For the time being will will remove docygen from PR required jobs
  - Expect gate keepers to verify all builds pass
  - Doxygen can be skipped, but if run must be passing
  - **Automerge will merge if doxygen fails!**
- Proposed updates to the goverance model [Anders]
   - https://github.com/mantidproject/governance/pull/25
   - PR collated feedback after developer and user meetings
   - Main things desired to be changed
     - Steering committee SWG and TWG (former not operating for 4+ years)
     - Make governance model less coupled (could work independently)
     - TWG is working well, keep the same but refer to committed roadmap (facility has resources) Committed Collaborative Roadmap
     - Cross Facility Goverance Working Groups
     - TWG -> developer workskop
     - SWG -> 5 year common scientific road across facilities, too complex and suggested to remove SWG from governance model
     - Desire for more User Meetings and better sharing between facilities
     - User Communication Working Group? Interface/Organize User Meeting
     - Cross Facility Goverance Working Groups
   
