### Present
Sarah, Pete, Tom, Zach, Oleksandr, Remi

# Status Updates
- Thanks to Sarah for organising a wonderful and very productive developer meeting (Pete).
- Next Mantid developer meeting: aim to meet as a satellite meeting before the start of NOBUGS 2026 at DESY.
- Qt5->Qt6
  - We should aim to move from PyQt/Sip to PySide/Shiboken first:
  - Which interfaces are using Qt in C++?
  - Will we run PySide and PyQt in parallel for some time?
  - Some pre-work has been done already by reducing some things that were in Sip (e.g. Boost::Optional -> std::optional).
- Rattler-build: Some clean up done, but still some to do. See [issue](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/40119) for more detail.
- GitHub actions migration
  - Linux dockerfile is the first task. **We decided to use Ubuntu as the base image** to ensure compatibility with existing GitHub actions, e.g. ``setup-python``.
  - Need to use the Ubuntu base image as the Jenkins base image to ensure compatibility for e.g. system tests.
  - ORNL will move the Coverity build across.
- Run system tests with ctest: some good progress made.

# Discussion
- Mial will be invited to attend the TWG as a non-voting participant. **Action**: Zach to send invitation.
- Mantid strategy for modularization: ORNL had some discussion ([link](https://github.com/mantidproject/workshops/blob/main/developer/2025-11/code_camp.md#ornl-discussion-about-modularizing-mantid)) at the developer workshop. Still much discussion to be had.
- Review of TWG membership
  - Discussion of whether TWG members should be removed from the list if they no longer contribute.
  - **Action** Pete, Remi, Anders to clarify membership positions before cleaning up the TWG member list.
- Goverenance document: Anders currently reviewing. PR should be incoming soon.

# Roadmap
- Osiris Si Analyzer v6.15
- MIDAS instrument upgrade
- VNext reduction AlignAndFocusPowderSlim
- Drop support for intel osx
- Move to qt6 v7
- Instrument view overhaul v7
  - PyVista pin issue
  - Need more feedback
