# Agenda
- v6.13.1 patch release status ([link](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/milestone/125))
  - Projected release date of 2025-07-21 was set, but it is expected to be ready later this week
  - The identified issues are progressing
- Updating to [Qt6](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38415) and the new help window (Pete & Tom)
  - The issue tracking work has been updated to commmunicate state
  - The change from `boost::optional` to `std::optional` https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/37868 is almost done
- Update on [NeXus consolidation](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38332) (Pete)
  - Progress is slowed by inconsistent behavior with `address` within the file
- Mantid Developer and User meetings 2025
- Mantid Strategy for modularisation (Sarah)
  - TWG was asked to think about this for the next meeting. The two cases are (i) breaking out more parts of mantid into separate packages (e.g. crystal field) and (ii) improving the plugin architecture so things can be used more easily from workbench
- Governance document (Pete & Sarah)
  - This will be worked and reviewed on as a pull request on the governance repository
- DevOps pipelines for Mantid
  - We are limited by osx runners which is made worse by supporting both intel and arm macs
  - There was a discussion of how to reduce builder usage. One idea was to explore running tests in the package builds. Previous attempts have not succeeded
  - ISIS network outage and ORNL build configuration was briefly discussed
