### Present
Sarah, Pete, Tom, Zach, Oleksandr, Rem

# Status Updates
- Developer meeting (Thank you to Sarah)
- Moving from Qt5 to Qt6PySide and PyQt 
- GitHub actions
- Migrate from Jenkins to GitHub actions
- Replace system tests with ctest

# Discussion
- Mantid strategy for modularization
- Update membership to TWG
  - Delete after how long without attending meetings?
  - Need to change governance and ask

# Roadmap
- Osiris Si Analyzer v6.15
- MIDAS instrument upgrade
- VNext reduction AlignAndFocusPowderSlim
- Drop support for intel osx
- Move to qt6 v7
- Instrument view overhaul v7
  - PyVista pin issue
  - Need more feedback
