Attendees: Tom, Pete, Sarah, Oleksandr, Remi

# Agenda
- Updating to [Qt6](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38415) and the new help window:
  - Help Window PR was merged in [39440](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pull/39440). Sarah asks for a follow-up from Pete/Darsh regarding documentation for Help Window.
  - Work related to making offline documentation optional is on-going (Pete).
  - OS latex support should be gone soon, but still neeeds testing with docker image. Follow-up issue/pr to be created (Tom).
  - Need a write-up of optional dependencies of conda (Pete).
  - Need to make sure we are using only `qtpy`.
  - Instrument View and merge to Qt6 can be done independently.  
  - pyqt6 PR on conda is created. When merged, it can simplify transition to qt6. Argeed to keep an eye on that.
  - Extensive testing should be done before transition to qt6, especially those who use scripts (Sarah).

- CMake 4 (Pete)
  - Draft PR is ready but is holding off until release. (Pete)
  - Recent comments to be follow-up on.
  - Newer version of boost might need to be implemented first.
  - Be aware of `numpy` pinning strategy change.

- Update on [NeXus consolidation](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38332) (Pete)
  - More tests have been added to `napi`.
  - `napi` is moving to nexusfile.
  - Work related to nexus classes and string.
  - h5cpp to be done.

- Workspace Naming conventions - see this [Issue](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/39488) (Sarah)
  - Work should be considered to be moved to release >=6.14.
  - Preference to enforcing python naming conventions.

- Mantid Developer and User meetings 2025
  - Sarah reports that cloud computing group at ISIS notified about some maintainance work to be done in November, which will make Linux runners offline. Exact dates to be clarified in future (Sarah).
  - Possibly no Linux CI at some point in November.
  - Availability of ORNL runners to be investigated (Pete).
- Review [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mantidproject/projects/47/views/1)

# Release 6.13
- No big issues so far. Beta testing is on-going and issues are being worked on.
- Nightly has failed couple of times. Resolved at the moment.
- Version problems with nightly at ORNL. Sarah will follow-up with a link with notes to Pete.
- MacOS PR is waiting for manual testing to be over, then it will be worked on.  
