# SWG Minutes

Date: **2022-09-30 UTC 11:00-12:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova (Chair)

* CSNS:
  * Xiaozhi Zhan

* ESS:
  * (Absent)

* ILL:
  * Stéphane Rols
  * Miguel Gonzalez

* JCNS:
  * Marina Ganeva

* PSI: (Absent)

* ORNL
  * Douglas Abernathy
  * Mathieu Doucet

* STFC:
  * Pascal Manuel
  * Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair)
  * Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```

------------

# Minutes

## Facility Updates

- JCNS - Marina discussed the recent work on the Inelastic GUI and the SANS loader which are being merged into the main mantid repository. There is also some work related to Scipp with ESS.

- ILL - Miguel mentioned they have 2 new full-time developers. There is some work in convincing some instruments to move full time to Mantid. There are plans for a new interface for D16.

- ORNL - Mathieu said that most recent work has been related to repackaging and Conda deployment. Some work on non-mantid Imaging.

- ISIS - Firstly Anna mentioned that Lamar will be leaving at the end of October. - Pascal noted there are discussions for Single Crystal updating from an old piece of software. - Steve mentioned that Muons have chosen to develop Wimbda rather than Mantid.

- CSNS - Xiaozhi described the upcoming beam cycle supports 5 instruments with commissioning of a few more at the end of the year. Reduction software is currently developed locally and not merged into the main Mantid repository.

## Any Other Business

- Polairsation Analysis - Pascal pointed out that Polarisation SANS scientists at ISIS are developing software themselves but is not sure how to capture this information.

- Marina requested a meeting for those facilities interested in SANS automated data reduction -> to be arranged via email.

- Beta Testing - Pascal described the process at ISIS where some scientists test workflows in GUIs. Beyond ISIS, there can be some beta testing at ILL, ORNL and PSI.

- Steve suggested organising a User Meeting, probably looking towards Spring 2023. He will discuss with Martyn and communicate any information in a few weeks.
