# SWG Minutes

Date: **2022-02-08 UTC 11:00-13:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova - Chair

* CSNS:
  * Hanqiu Jiang

* ESS:
  * Judith Houston
  * Thomas Holm

* ILL:
  * Miguel Gonzalez
  * Stéphane Rols

* JCNS: Absent

* PSI: Absent

* ORNL:
  * Doug Abernathy
  * Pete Peterson

* STFC:
  * Pascal Manuel
  * Martyn Gigg - TWG Chair
  * Lamar Moore
  * Stephen Cottrell - User Group Chair
  * Daniel Murphy - Secretary

```

# Meeting Agenda

### Discuss common points identified by Anna and Pas
### Dicuss how to work with the TWG

------------

# Minutes

## Introducing new SWG members
- Stéphane Rols is taking over management of mantid development at ILL and so has joined the SWG
- Thomas Holm from DMSC at ESS is also joining the SWG.



## Analysing Common Roadmap points
- Anna began discussions to identify what is required for each of the common roadmap points, from the list collated by Pascal.


### Spreadsheet / Shared User Interface - ANSTO, ILL, ~ISIS

The first common point was a spreadsheet like user interface. Some interfaces in MantidWorkbench (such has ISIS SANS) already have a simple spreadsheet like approach. DRILL (an interface being developed by the ILL) aims to have a general spreadsheet interface, which can be used for many different scientific disciplines.

Martyn mentioned that having interfaces shared by different facilities has been difficult in the past, as it requires each facility to agree on every detail of implementation.

Lamar pointed out that the collaborating partners in the TWG can assess the viability of this project.
The SWG members agreed that more information should be gathered before passing on a more detailed set of ideas to the TWG.

Pascal proposed an action on each facility, which is interested in this spreadsheet / shared user interface project, to give an example of what they expect from it. When there are examples, we can decide if they are similar enough to collaborate.


### Documented validated workflows, in particular Absorption Corrections - ILL, ISIS, CSNS

Pascal said that even beyond absorption corrections, it is often hard to share and access knowledge on current scientific reduction workflows in Mantid.

Anna asked is it possible to identify the places (say certain algorithms) and then target the improvements needed. This will require some scientific input and maybe a description of how these workflows have been validated.

Pete shared a baseline for absorption corrections: https://docs.mantidproject.org/concepts/AbsorptionAndMultipleScattering.html


### Speed of slicing - CSNS ISIS ANSTO ORNL (likely all facilities)

Pete is very interested in slicing slow down and is trying to track this down!
Martyn said that this is already on the TWG roadmap to look at in future.
Pete has created some benchmarks (such as compared to NumPy) and wondered how he should share the results with TWG (and SWG).

Anna was happy that no action was required on SWG members, unless they can provide any examples on slow down when slicing.
Pascal also mentioned recurring memory leak problems which have been most apparent for large datasets on Windows.


### GISANS - ANSTO, CSNS

Pascal will ask at ISIS about GISANS. CSNS currently providing raw data to users for GISANS. ILL use GISANS outside of Mantid and not frequently.

Anna wonder if it is worth keeping GISANS on the roadmap. CSNS would like GISANS to be a part of Mantid. Scientific side needs to define what is needed in Mantid for GISANS.

Martyn pointed out that collaboration will be easier it is initiated by the scientists. They should try to define what they would like and consider facility schedules and resource they can provide.


## Miscellaneous

- Autoprocessing systems (such as at ILL) have resulted in a lot of interest for framework only builds of Mantid, which should be available in the coming months.

- Thomas asked if facilities are using different interfaces, meaning that users have to learn new interfaces when visiting different facilities. He mentioned that this is a notable piece of feedback he has heard several times. A few members raised the discussed difficulties with collaborating on interfaces between facilities.

- Miguel inquired how to use fitting for data with bins of zero or low counts. A possible workaround may be setting the errors to zero for these. Scientists at ISIS are currently in discussions about how to tackle this problem. ORNL are also thinking about this. Pete mentioned that Andrei is considering how to track an error bar when there are zero events.


# Actions - Email Anna + Daniel by 15/03/2022

## Facilities interested in Spreadsheet / shared user interface
- Provide an example of what they expect from the interface.

## Facilities interested in improving validated workflows (e.g Absorption corrections)
- Collect the highest priority algorithms / workflows that need improvements and information for validating

## Facilities interested in GISANS
- Define what is needed in Mantid for GISANS
- Pascal to ask for interest at ISIS

### Optional Action
- Communicate any solutions to the problem fitting data with zero/low counts raised by Miguel.


# Next Agenda

Meet again in 5/6 weeks (~early April) to discuss progress on defining above common projects.
