# SWG Minutes

Date: **2022-04-20 UTC 11:00-13:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova (Chair)

* CSNS:
  * Xiaozhi Zhan
  * Hanqiu Jiang

* ESS:
  * Thomas Holm

* ILL:
  * Stéphane Rols
  * Miguel Gonzalez

* JCNS: (Absent)

* PSI: (Absent)

* ORNL
  * Douglas Abernathy
  * Mathieu Doucet

* STFC:
  * Lamar Moore
  * Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair)
  * Martyn Gigg
  * Daniel Murphy (Secretary)

```



# Meeting Agenda

## Updates from facilities

## Technical update from Martyn

## Discuss feedback on common interests
### Facilities interested in Spreadsheet / shared user interface
### Facilities interested in GISANS
### Facilities interested in improving validated workflows (e.g Absorption corrections)


------------

# Minutes

## Updates from facilities
### ANSTO
Anna starts off discussing ANSTO, not much to report as less than one person on data reduction at ANSTO

### ILL
Miguel described some changes from the new management. Stéphane is the new head of computing at ILL and separately Gagik also left in February. They have been recruiting and hopefully will have move towards a team of 3 developers.
Anna briefly mentioned that Charles Dewhurst uses GRASP for SANS. Triple axis / spin echo is not covered by Mantid but all other instruments use Mantid. SANS data reduction covered officially by GRASP.

### ORNL
Jon Taylor has joined the neutron scattering division and coordinates scientific software for data acquisition and data reduction. Mathieu hopes he will make it easier to integrate with different systems.

### CSNS
Four new instruments online in the next year which are planning on using Mantid. Xiaozhi mentioned that they have a data reduction script and want to be able to turn nexus files into compatible files for Mantid. Lamar suggested talking to Peter Willendrup from the ESS who has experience converting McStas files into Nexus files compatible for Mantid.

### ISIS
Moving Muon software effort towards supporting Wimbda and stopping development for this workflow in Mantid. Main reason was the user community are quite familiar with Wimbda. Also, the internal and external governance changes helped to put a spotlight on the problems with scope for supporting the Muon workflow in Mantid.

This was a common experience for members where workflows are covered by different pieces of software. Anna mentioned the Quokka instrument uses Egor and only half of the team would like to use Mantid. Generally, there is more engagement when the instrument uses Mantid from the start. Mathieu mentioned this issue was behind ORNL rewriting the SANS interface.


## Technical update from Martyn
- Next release at the start of June
- Big aim is getting Conda packaging for Mantid rolled out, this may even hold up the next release.
- ISIS and SNS working together on adding non-axis aligned cuts into the Sliceviewer. A few developers have had useful discussions to share ideas and testing for this new feature.
- Miguel expressed interest in short monthly TWG meetings to engage developers across facilities.
- Anna asked about how small bugs are tracked on Github. Martyn described that ignored issues are closed by the stalebot which promotes important ones. Features that require advanced effort are expected to be tackled by the facility that the request came from. Alternatively, Mathieu mentioned that SasView have biweekly review meetings with facility representatives to actively assign (or ignore) and divide out the tickets that are created.


## Discuss feedback on common interests

### Facilities interested in Spreadsheet / shared user interface
- See [2022-04-20_updates.pdf](attachments/2022-04-20_updates.pdf) and [2022-04-20_ILL_Mantid_interfaces.pdf](attachments/2022-04-20_ILL_Mantid_interfaces.pdf) for more information.
- Anna mentioned that users quite like interfaces and the current workflow is good but not as aesthetic.
- Lamar said that creating specific interfaces could be outside of Mantid, (such as MantidImaging and Horace) but import Mantid as a library to use Mantid algorithms and functionality if needed.
- Martyn mentioned that the current MantidWorkbench interfaces may be moved out of the main Mantid codebase at some stage.
- Mathieu proposed that the Mantid website should help and inspire with examples of the current interfaces using Mantid, whether they are currently in the codebase, like at ILL and ISIS, or outside of the mantid codebase, like at ORNL.


### Facilities interested in GISANS
- At ANSTO, GRASP currently is used for some basic analysis of GISANS data.
- Mathieu said that 2 reflectometry scientists at ORNL are interested in joining the discussion about GISANS. The current workflow is less supported as the market for GISANS data reduction is smaller.
- CSNS as a spallation source are currently trying to calculate the transmission for different wavelengths for their GISANS instruments. Currently users are writing their own scripts to reduce raw data. Lamar suggested pulling from the expertise of these users who have written their own reduction.
- Mathieu proposed connecting interested people at ORNL, CSNS and possibly ANSTO to discuss in a separate meeting.


### Facilities interested in improving validated workflows (e.g Absorption corrections)

Workflows needing validation tests: Absorption Corrections (Pascal); Wide Angle Correction (Anna); Discus Multiple Scattering (Miguel working with Spencer Howells to validate for ILL data.)

- Miguel wondered how, after validating workflows, to state the cases where it works / does not. This is currently a discussion between Spencer and Miguel but the information will be useful for the wider user community. Miguel and Martyn agreed on a channel for Scientific Discussion on the Mantid Forum.


## User Meeting
Steve and Lamar expressed interest in the next user meeting being in person, with a great opportunity for SWG Members to meet. Lamar suggested having a meeting as a satellite to NOBUGS at PSI in September. Planning for this will need to happen soon to gain official approval from facilities for travel.

- Steve will email SWG members to ask for constraints to the user meeting.


## AOB

- To find the new features in current development / recent release: https://docs.mantidproject.org/release/index.html
- Lamar likes the facility updates as a standing item. To keep the roadmap/current status of the facilities updated, Anna asked for an email if there is a large changes for one facility.


# Actions

## Steve
- Email SWG to ask for time constraints (e.g. cycle times) on User Meeting

## General
- Create full list of interfaces that use Mantid, and use the website to inspire future interfaces with examples that use the Mantid framework.
- CSNS, ORNL (and ANSTO) connect to discuss GISANS data reduction.
- Breakoff meetings for people interested in each workflow validation.

## Daniel
- Create Scientific Discussions channel on Mantid Forum
- Add Facility Updates as a standing item.
