# TWG Minutes

Date: 2021-12-09

Attendees: Fairbrother, Vardanyan, Peterson, Morgan, Tillet, Gigg

# Recap actions from previous meeting:

## Everyone:
- Update roadmap with as many details as possible in time for the workshops next week
- Ask developers who haven't registered if they are interested. Ask attendees to complete an intro slide

## Fairbrother
- Pre-generate the list of slow tests
- Organise meeting for week after workshops

## Fairbrother and Gigg
- Create slides on Jenkins CI

## Gigg
- Create Zoom links for the meeting and instructions for intro PDF
- Create suggestions of gripes / ideas from the past. Include this in an email
- Prepare a talk for User Workshop and send it around
- Send Peterson a list of people registered
- Swap ILL / PSI for facility updates on day 1 of the user workgroup

## Guest + Vardanyan
- Do a test run-through with a Code With Me session before the workshop

# Meeting Agenda

## Release [6.3 schedule](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/milestone/99)
- Checking proposed dates for 6.3 release process:
- Feature Freeze 24th December
- Beta Test 10th Jan - 28th Jan
- Release 7th February
- TWG was happy with these dates
- Asking for nominations for release roles in the coming days.
Alternatively, ISIS can assign staff if there are no nominations.
- Release role descriptions can be found [here](https://developer.mantidproject.org/ReleaseChecklist.html)

### Roadmap Review
- The estimated release window (e.g. 6.3 or 6.4) was tweaked for various items
- ILL is fine to wait for a future release, pending their upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04

----

## Developer Workshop Retrospective
- Tried to pack too much in, ended up moving talks as 10 minute blocks are too short for the content covered
- Positive feedback from a participant on ensemble programming, ORNL to try and adopt this more
- Across the board feedback that it was good meeting co-developers
- Code with me wasn't as seamless as originally hoped, some unexpected issues cropped up leaving developers to figure it out instead of knowing a point of contact
- Consider once every 6 month Dev Meetings? We previously had release parties to discuss what went into the release.

### Release Parties
- Add it to the timeline of a release, a short period after to ensure everything is fine, as to conclude the process.
- Also preview what people are planning in the next release. Show off the roadmap to developers, ask if anything is missing too?
- Action: Gigg - find date that works for everyone, and add a release party to this.
- Action: Gigg - Create a set of slides covering: what we've done, preview of roadmap for next iteration, upcoming large process or tech changes.

---

## Review Process Discussion
- Dev workshop didn't make much progress, but highlighted the need for a separate discussion
- Currently planning discussions on this, possibly at the start of 2022
- Fundamentally two camps appearing on how to resolve this idea
- However, we all agree this is a pain point so will be looked at
- Action: Gigg Add Peterson + Vardanyan as interested parties to these discussions

---

## Guidelines on design documents
- Many PRs on design documents are closed as stale
- No formal guidance on when a design document is required
- Some techniques have dev documentation (e.g. Framework, ISIS Reflectometry + SANS concept pages), but most of it is user documents.
- Should document how to maintain / extend existing aspects
- There are many different "patterns" or mini "workflows" in Mantid all competing for developer knowledge as there is no preferred way of doing things
- Peterson proposed a previously discussed on building codes, everything is grandfathered in. But everything going forward will follow these codes.
- E.g. going forward Poco::Path / Poco::File shouldn't be used in new instances. This would guide people away from using these legacy APIs and tools and suggest replacements.
- A lot of text on our standards page, a summary page would be good.
- Re: Automated tooling, could we leverage pre-commit to flag libraries as do not use. This doesn't enforce architecture patterns.
- E.g. Design Documents describes *how* to make a design doc, but not *when* to.

### Discussion on when to create design document
- No empirical point, and it's hard to define one:
- E.g. a plugin wouldn't, nor would bug fixes
- Could say a roadmap item requires it, but what constitutes a roadmap item
- "A general tool" or "seen by default" should have design docs as they are generic
- A table showing this which developers could look across would be a good way to show this
- Deciding axes for this would be key:
- Specific->General, Number of Clients High->Low
- Since everything has an associated design document, having persistent designs (regardless of formality) would be good to track too.
- Action Vardanyan: Create a page on dev docs formalising when to create a design document.

### Document Repository
- Documents repo needs a tidy, as it's a mix of design documents and general project docs.
- Should we start with a fresh repo and archive this. Or tidy that
- Design documents is large enough it could be a candidate for moving into its own repo?
- Highlights a need for a `Contributing.md` file in a repo, describing the process for getting design documents completed.
- Discussed the idea of tagging releases in the docs repo in parallel. Then obsolete documents can be removed, but preserved for their respective tags.
----

## Next TWG Meeting
- Mid / Late January to allow us to plan maintenance / release tasks for 6.3.

# Action Items

## Gigg
- Find date that works for everyone, and add a release party to this.
- Create a set of slides covering: what we've done, preview of roadmap for next iteration, upcoming large process or tech changes.
- Add Peterson + Vardanyan as interested parties to these discussions

## Vardanyan
- Create a page on dev docs formalising when to create a design document.
