# TWG Minutes

Date: 2021-05-10

Attendees:

Chen, Fairbrother, Ganeva, Gigg, Guest, Hauser, Morgan, Peterson, Rantsiou, Tillet, Vardanyan.

# Meeting Agenda

## Introductions

## Tour of roadmap and governance repositories
- [Roadmap repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap)
- [Governance repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/governance)

## Discussion on roadmap repository
- Which issue labels?
- How to control what is put into the repository
- Where should prior discussion be held; in the Forum or Github Discussions or somewhere else?

## Platform for day-to-day conversation
- Meetings are difficult to organise
- Where do we discuss daily operational needs without too many meetings? In the Forum, Github, Slack or something else?

## TWG Meeting Frequency
- Initial suggestion is currently 2 months

# AOB
None

# Actions from Previous Meeting

N/A

# Minutes

## Tour of roadmap and governance repositories
- Governance repository has been created with a list of contributing facilities and members.
- Governance document has been adapted to match the repository format, and is pending as a pull request.

**Action - TWG Members: Check over facilities and member lists for any typos**

## Discussion on roadmap repository

- Demo on how Github use the project board for [their roadmap](https://github.com/github/roadmap/projects/1)
- It was explicitly noted that Github only going a few releases into the future, not forever. Also a single past release is kept.
- Proposal to call items on the roadmap, "a capability" instead of "feature". This anchors the concept of capabilities that workbench needs instead of features it provides.
- Discussion on epics vs capabilities: It's suggested that a capability shouldn't carry across multiple releases, whilst an epic may carry across a few.

**Action - Peterson: Insert a description in roadmap readme about scope re:capabilities, epics and features**

**Action - TWG Members: Include one or more roadmap item(s) for 6.2 up before June 10th**

**Action - Gigg: Add TWG members to Github Mantid Organisation**

- A Github [issue](https://github.com/github/roadmap/issues/126) was opened and it was highlighted how the headers of, "Summary, Intended Outcome and How will it Work" should further clarify how we hope to use these issues.

**Action - Peterson: Include an issue template into roadmap repo**

- Proposal to scratch the idea of having an alternative platform to discuss these items. Instead we should focus on using Roadmap repo instead.
- A question was raised: If two TWG members have similar goals how do they get contact details to collaborate (e.g. email addresses).
- Concerns about staying transparent whilst keeping contact details private. This was left to future meetings if/when it becomes a problem.
- It was noted that not all members can access Slack, such as the CSNS where it is blocked.
- We should also encourage new and existing members to re-introduce themselves as there has been significant staff change (at least at ISIS).

---

## TWG Meeting Frequency

- Proposed that 1 month is too frequent, but 3 months leaves too much to discuss at our current 4 month release cycle. So 2 months is ideal.
- Soft-deadline for adding items to the roadmap. This is targetting release 6.2 (September 27th), so we would want items within the next month (May-June time window)
- Doodle Poll was useful to see windows for meetings without constant comms. But need stricter window for responses.
- No alternative to Doodle Poll was proposed, so we will continue to use that.

---

## Platform for day-to-day conversation

- This is required for discussing new dependencies / platforms ...etc.
- TWG is primarily focused on roadmap, rather than daily operational needs.
- This was previously done in the TSC with larger collaborating facilities, however smaller facilities are more than welcome to partake.
- A concern was raised about if these discussion happen in public what happens with sensitive disclosures e.g. vulnerabilities.
- Clarification that the platform is envisioned for things directly tied to the software, such as dependencies and platforms, rather than infrastructure which can be managed privately by responsible parties privately.
- A question about unclear scope was raised; for example do we discuss what is a supported platform?
- This is seen as a place where everyone involved in Mantid can able to discuss issues and proposals, rather than a select group. If an issue is controversial it will quickly become obvious and we can address it as/when.
- Proposal to create a category in the Mantid Forum dedicated to this discussion type.

**Action - Gigg: Create a forum category and populate it with Conda information to start discussion**

- Do we provide private categories for internal discussion, e.g. for somewhere for participating facilities to say were going to support x platform. This would avoid it turning into a location for users to request platform support without being able to provide it, for example.
- The decision to add private categories was deferred until the need arises.

# Action Items

## TWG Members:
- Check over facilities and member lists in [Governance repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/governance) for any typos in facility or member names.
- Include one or more roadmap items for release 6.2 before June 10th.

## Gigg
- Add missing TWG members to Mantid Project Github Organisation
- Create forum category for day-to-day operational discussion

## Peterson
- Create an issue template in the [roadmap repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap)
- Insert a description in roadmap readme about scope re:capabilities, epics and features
