# TWG Minutes

Date: 2021-11-22

Attendees: Fairbrother, Gigg, Guest, Peterson, Tillet, Vardanyan.

# Recap actions from previous meeting:

## Gigg
- Ask ILL if some topics can be shortened / merged together for User Workshop TWG section.
- Create registration to get an idea for numbers for developer workshop

## Peterson
- Email introduction slide template to Gigg.

## All
- Add roadmap items for 6.3 release.

# Meeting Agenda

- Cover new repository [workshops](https://github.com/mantidproject/workshops).
- Used the wiki rather than markdown documents. Can this work for future meetings as a low-overhead solution?
- Happy with agenda?
- Code owners
- Pull Request throughput
- Design documents:
  - Advice on when to create them (Vardanyan)
- Review roadmap
  - Can we get this updated with as much as possible before the meeting next week?
- Any other business

# Users Workshop
- Only have a talk on the second day

### Action Items:
- Gigg: Prepare a talk for this and send it around in the future
- Gigg: Swap ILL / PSI (who currently have nobody attending) for facility updates on day 1 of the user workgroup

---

## Developer Workshop - Day 1
- A separate repo for Developer Workshops has been created, and we are using the [Wiki](https://github.com/mantidproject/workshops/wiki/Developer-Workshop-2021) to planning details
- Times were shifted later into the day to make this easier for ORNL, as ANTSO has not expressed an to attend currently
- Everyone: Forward on links for meeting and ask developers again if they want to attend
- Added a hobby to the list of things we've asked people about
- Moved workshop discussion on ensemble programming before group coding exercise
- Discussion on the benefits of using Code With Me: requires no installation, matches tooling in use and allows people to easily follow each other
- Agreed to use this tool for the groups, and fall-back to screen share where it doesn't work
- Briefly covered an outline of the what we're planning to cover Re: xapi, CppCheck and Conda
- Peterson: Ensure Conda talk points out the benefit of switching to Conda
- Vardanyan: Could we cover Jenkins CI: Pipelines / PR flow / What developers can do if tests fail on nightly builds?

### Action Items:
- Gigg: Create Zoom links for the meeting and instructions for intro PDF
- Everyone: Ask developers who haven't registered if they are interested. Ask attendees to complete intro slide
- Fairbrother and Gigg: Create slides on Jenkins CI

---

## Developer Workshop - Day 2
- Having direction / pre-empting some gripes and ideas would allow us to form an initial cohesive direction
- Fairbrother: Pre-generate the list of slow tests
- Discussion on if we need CLion and Pycharm code with me are needed again. Would require builds ready to go, and in the past we've resorted to offline approaches (e.g. code-review of unreliable tests) too
- An alternative is to divide work into user stories then have multiple people work on the same branch?

### Action Items:
- Fairbrother: Pre-generate the list of slow tests
- Gigg: Create suggestions of gripes / ideas from the past. Include this in an email
- Guest and Vardanyan: Do a test run-through with a Code With Me session before the workshop.
---

## Review Roadmap

### Action Items
-  Everyone: Update roadmap with as many details as possible in time for the workshops next week.

---

## Pull Requests and Code Coverage
- Question on whether Gatekeepers are required any-more
- Brief overview of how Github code coverage works
- Slowest part of PR process is waiting for initial reviewer to pickup PR
- Randomly assigning PRs was brought up, on the one hand this system means someone can't pick up something they are suited to review. Equally, this was received well on Slack for general PRs
- Suggestion from Vardanyan, after a reasonable number of days someone is assigned randomly to the PR if nobody else is selected?
- Could use a separate label to indicate opt-in/opt-out for random instruments
- It was pointed out that some PRs are facility specific, e.g. instrument geometry. Not sure where the balance lies between...
- Code owners would be good to get in place earlier to easily highlight responsibilities across the codebase
- This warrants further discussion, put together a document with proposals for discussion.
- It was suggested we do this as part of day 2 on the dev meeting as a starting place

---

## AOB
### When to hold next meeting?
- Agreed to hold it the week after workshops to gather feedback on the workshops.

---

# Actions

## Everyone:
- Update roadmap with as many details as possible in time for the workshops next week
- Ask developers who haven't registered if they are interested. Ask attendees to complete an intro slide

## Fairbrother
- Pre-generate the list of slow tests
- Organise meeting for week after workshops

## Fairbrother and Gigg
- Create slides on Jenkins CI

## Gigg
- Create Zoom links for the meeting and instructions for intro PDF
- Create suggestions of gripes / ideas from the past. Include this in an email
- Prepare a talk for User Workshop and send it around
- Send Peterson a list of people registered
- Swap ILL / PSI for facility updates on day 1 of the user workgroup

## Guest + Vardanyan
- Do a test run-through with a Code With Me session before the workshop
