# TWG Minutes

Date: 2021-06-17

Attendees:  Chen, Fairbrother, Gigg, Guest, Morgan, Peterson, Rantsiou,  Tillet, Vardanyan

# Recap actions from previous meeting:
## TWG Members adding roadmap items:
- Covered in main agenda...

# Meeting Agenda
- Request to set date to require two-factor authentication for those who are members of the mantidproject GitHub organization (Martyn)
  - This would kick out those without 2FA activated: i.e. No labeling of issues, rebuilding failed CI jobs
  - We would still like to encourage working on forks but requiring it by removing those from the org is probably overkill
- Feedback from first [Scientific Working Group meeting](https://github.com/mantidproject/governance/blob/main/scientific-working-group/minutes/2021/2021-05-26.md) (Martyn)
- Review roadmap items (all)
- Any other business?


# AOB
- Cross Working Group Collaboration
- Frequency of Meetings

# Minutes

## 2FA Authentication
- This is being driven from ISIS as per a security review
- At a minimum gatekeepers must have 2FA
- Forks are still available if anyone is removed from the org (in worst case)
- No objections were raised, so this was scheduled for the end of June.

**Action:**
- Gigg: Contact developers and review organisation member list with a view to completing this rollout.

---

## Scientific Working Group Roadmaps
- Meeting was attended by Gigg to feedback into this
- Roadmaps are available [here](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap/)
- Overall consensus is the SWG requires additional time to collate their facility plans
- ORNL using roadmap repository to break down and steer development for their scientific requirements. This helps ORNL create work estimates for high level requirements, e.g. multiple scattering


## Cross working group collaboration

- It was pointed out a technical representative / scientific representative should attend across meetings to enable cross collaboration
- Doodle poll should only consider scheduling for TWG members. But the meeting invite will be made open for everyone

**Action:**
- Gigg: To contact SWG Secretary to organise cross collaboration across groups
- Fairbrother: Organise future TWG meetings and associated Doodle poll

---

## Roadmap Item - Experiment API
- Vardanyan presented the roadmap item [Experiment API](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap/issues/7)
- Across an experiment there may be multiple samples, calibrations, etc.
- Without this we require user scripts to do the heavy lifting on their behalf, or alternatively try to shoehorn the complexity into a workflow algorithm
- This leads to increased user support as scripts become unmaintainable
- Proposal is a layer above simple API which uses OO to unify the various techniques have used to approach this problem.
- Tasks can be decomposed into a directed graph in a similar manner to Dask Task Graphs (see roadmap item for more details)


## Feedback on Roadmap Process

Note: The TWG was focusing on the roadmap process rather than the specifics of the item presented. Overall, people were interested in the proposal for an API and further discussion is expected.

- Since there is no approval process, how do facilities indicate they want to collaborate on something? It was noted that facilities should consider all things that interest them without having a label.
- Could we add items to the roadmap so that it's clear the timeline. This item was marked as targetting 6.2, but concern was raised that the work could be chunked down further.
- The label "Needs scoping" is useful for starting discussion where cross collaboration will happen. Where issues are clearly scoped we should mention other facility members in the issue, where we think there will be an interest.
- Since we're already committing to these points for a release do we then make these capabilities prominent in the release notes. This was agreed as sensible by Gigg.

---

## Roadmap Item - TOF Powder Diffraction
- Morgan presented the roadmap item on [improving powder TOF calibrations](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap/issues/8)
- This would include two steps, cross correlation and peak position calibration using clustering algorithms.
- This is similar to ISIS's ENGINX approach, and might be useful for both.
- This moves the burden of knowing instrument details to an automatic approach relying on clustering.
- The components for clustering is performed outside Mantid, whilst cross-correlation is completed within Mantid algorithms

## Roadmap Item Feedback
- This would be something that ISIS is interested in, and communication is already happening between a developer as ISIS and ORNL.

---

## Roadmap Item - Conda Development Environment
- Gigg presented the roadmap item on [creating a Conda developer environment for linux](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap/issues/4)
- This moves the project to a Conda-first approach where the environment is preset for a developer.
- Environment definition files will be provided so that anyone can use Conda directly.
- This makes new dependencies in Python trivial to pickup. But care should be taken before adding them because it's easy.

## Roadmap Item Feedback
- It was noted that some dependencies were strictly pinned, however this was changed prior to the meeting to be minimum versions instead.
- The Conda environment will provide tooling, e.g. CMake, which unifies the versions the project uses. Alternatively, we can also create Conda packages as required too.
- Care needs to be taken not to re-add dependencies we already have, e.g. another XML library.

---

## Meeting Frequency

- Currently working on a monthly meeting frequency, so that we could focus on the roadmap.
- The next meeting will take place during the 6.2 code freeze, since we have 6.2 capabilities lined up.
- If we have enough new roadmap items to warrant discussions we can do so, in the mean time people can discuss on issues directly.

# Action Items

## Gigg
- Create forum category for day-to-day operational discussion
- Email people / remove from org for mandatory 2FA rollout by end of June.

## Fairbrother
- Organise future meetings and Doodle polls
