# TWG Minutes

Date: 2020-10-20

Attendees: Fairbrother, Ganeva, Gigg, Guest, Morgan, Peterson

# Recap actions from previous meeting:
- Email milestone for 6.2 to TWG list.
- Email TWG list to update roadmap with 6.3 roadmap items.
- Email working group for user workshop about the possibility of a developer workshop too.
- Email Vardanyan about ROI selection tool after 6.2 release is completed.
- Add roadmap items for 6.3 release.

# Meeting Agenda
- User Workshop
- Developer meeting:
  - Initially Proposed Date: 3 hours, 1st Dec 2021?
  - Ideas for agenda

- Any other business


## Technical session of upcoming user meeting
- Users Workshop 2021 has been announced [on the project website](https://www.mantidproject.org/Category_Users_Workshop_2021.html)
- The TWG has ~1.5 hour allocated to discuss its points
- Directories for workshops planning/material is now on [Github](https://github.com/mantidproject/governance/tree/main/technical-working-group/workshops)
- Current list of ideas for talks can be found
- Looking for 5-6 shorter talks rather, to cover a breadth of things rather than in depth.
- Speakers can email / bring slides along them will be places into docs repo, as the project website does not currently allow easy upload.

### Planning talks:

- ORNL: Discuss using Mantid as a library, and managing different release processes using forks.
- Peterson: Asked to explicitly capture larger work that is completed, such as sample corrections, in that list too.
- New Dependency Management with Conda.
- Conda was shifted into recap to come in under-time.
- We could ask ILL to shorten some topics, to allow for more time on other topics that prompt Q/A (such as xapi) (Action: Gigg).
- Hold Q/A at the end of all topics, i.e. lightning talks, to allow people to have ample time to present.

---

## Developer Meeting
- It was agreed this would be useful for developers to share their ideas / and getting to know each other.
- Whilst it was agreed in the previous TWG meeting, no date was agreed. Gigg floated the 2021-12-01 as the starting date for a 3 hour workshop.
- Agreed to also add a second day, to cover more dynamic content such as a "gripes solving session"
- Guest suggested we shift the meeting on by 1 day to give a day between User and Developer Workshops.
- Developer Workshop Date is now 2021-12-02 + 03.
- Various people will email / discuss beforehand to plan in the interim.
- Will discuss technical items too, to share info on the project:

### Technical details talk ideas:
- Conda intro/tutorial
- Pre-commit/CI jobs
- Ensemble programming overview (Guest)
- Project layout discussion

### Coding Camp
- Peterson: pointed out 3 hours may not be long enough to run aspects like code camps such as previous years.
- Guest: a large aspect of code camp remotely will be trying to setup tooling to support this.
- Gigg: GildedRose-Refactoring-Kata could be a suggestion of something to work on?
- Peterson: Could run it as a Coding Dojo workshop equally?
- Peterson: This would be better to run towards the end of the session to absorb excess time, so that it cannot overrun

### Introduction Slides
- Peterson: could run it where each person gets a slide template for a 1 minute lightning talk to introduce themselves, area of expertise and what they're working on. (Action: Peterson email template to Gigg)
- This would allow us to use a unified set of slides that can be presented from a single machine.
- Need to create some sort of registration to get an idea of numbers expected (Action: Gigg)

---

# AOB
- Agreed to hold another TWG meeting 1 week before User Workshop to allow for final planning
- Guest: Gatekeeping is centralised on a specific set of people, so PRs stop getting merged when these key people go on leave.
- Reminder that gatekeepers need to regularly review and merge PRs.

---


# Action Items

## Gigg
- Ask ILL if some topics can be shorted / merged together for User Workshop TWG section.
- Create registration to get an idea for numbers for developer workshop

## Peterson
- Email introduction slide template to Gigg.

## All
- Add roadmap items for 6.3 release.
