# TWG Minutes

Date: 2021-08-11

Attendees:

Fairbrother, Gigg, Guest, Peterson, Rantsiou, Tillet, Vardanyan.

# Recap actions from previous meeting:

## Create forum category for day-to-day operational discussion
- Used existing developer news category, rather than creating a new one
- [URL to new forum section](https://forum.mantidproject.org/c/news/dev-news/15)

## Enabling 2FA
- Now enabled as mandatory across the organisation.
- No reported disruption from this change.

# Meeting Agenda

## 6.2 release timeline:

- Reminder of [Milestone dates.](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/milestone/95)
- Gigg to email TWG mailing list for members who were unable to attend the meeting.

---

## Thoughts on user meeting agenda
- Last meeting was in 2019.
- Interest in performing this virtually, especially with recent changes in the project's governance model.
- Largely being organised in a separate meeting to this.
- Possibility of a 3rd day developers only workshop was raised, as it's currently only planned as 2 days:

## Developer workshop
- Would developers who have joined the project to put names to faces.
- Would be nice in-person, but unlikely that restrictions will ease in the short/medium term enough for this to happen.
- Holding it remotely also means all staff can attend without worrying about travel costs.
- Would be good to book-end the meeting, either before or after, with a half day meeting?
- Mainly organisational constraints of having to co-ordinate the meeting.
- **Action**: Gigg to email working group with this suggestion.
- Should focus on active developers, but would be nice to include less involved community members. Timezones will ultimately be the limiting factor.
- Need to actively think about what content to cover during the workshop, possibly big items e.g. a new fitting engine.

---

## Review roadmap items
## 6.2 Items

### ROI selection tool
- ISIS Reflectometry tool to select a region of interest and run their reduction live
- Plot and selection tooling is generic so can be used elsewhere
- Would be good to meet with ILL to discuss adapting the instrument viewer.
- **Action**: Guest to email Vardanyan after 6.2 release to discuss.
- Hacky prototype exists to demonstrate this functionality

### Conda Dependency management
- Completed for 6.2 release

### TOF Powder Diffraction
- Confirmed working for NOMAD (ORNL)
- Need to confirm on some other instruments, but likely working.
- Still pending testing if shorter calibration runs can be used for cross-correlate
- Also results in sharper peaks across a range of d-spacing.
- Further testing ongoing.

### Experiment API (xapi)
- Moved to 6.3 due to in-cycle commitments.

## 6.3 Items
- **Action** Gigg: Email reminding people to add 6.3 roadmap items.
- **Action** All: Add roadmap items for 6.3 release.

# AOB

## Discussion on high level overview of switch to Conda
- Working on packaging using Conda, which will be for the next release.
- Need to determine how we ship Mantid for users who don't want to install Mantid.
- Some places where GUI libs (Qt) has crept into Framework targets which need separating.
- Open cascade is a large dependency, implicitly pulling in VTK and QT
    - No investigation has been made into a replacement yet.
- Progress will slow due to one developer going on rotation.
    - Will likely have packages ready in Conda for 6.3, but not Conda agnostic deps.
- Do we need to change our major version number?
    - Unclear if it's user visible and worthy of a version bump.
    - Likely will be a discussion for release "6.4".

---

# Action Items

## Gigg
- Email milestone for 6.2 to TWG list.
- Email TWG list to update roadmap with 6.3 roadmap items.
- Email working group for user workshop about the possibility of a developer workshop too.

## Guest
- Email Vardanyan about ROI selection tool after 6.2 release is completed.

## All
- Add roadmap items for 6.3 release.
