# TWG Minutes

Date: 2022-01-19

Attendees: Fairbrother, Ganeva, Guest, Morgan, Peterson

# Recap actions from previous meeting:

## Vardanyan
- Create a page on dev docs formalising when to create a design document.

# Meeting Agenda

- Feedback on the release process for 6.3
- Roadmap for 6.4
- Maintenance tasks for 6.3

---

# Minutes

## Feedback on the release process for 6.3
- Everyone agreed the release process for 6.3 was going well.

---

## Roadmap for 6.4
- Conda Build still progressing into 6.4, mainly on packaging
- ROI selection for INTER / 2D detectors
- Arbitrary cuts in slice viewer, looks like this will still happen for 6.4 but dependent on outside projects taking up time
- ISIS Reflectometry - Future: Reflectometry looking at a unified (cross-facility) format for saving ASCII reflectometry data. [Project](https://www.reflectometry.org/working_groups/file_formats/) and [library](https://github.com/reflectivity/orsopy)
- **Action - ISIS Check that all roadmap items are up on the board**

---

## Maintenance Board
- Moved some existing maintenance tasks which weren't completed back into the backlog
- Agreed to bump CppCheck version again, to put more regular updates in
- In addition to this, look at trying to reduce Cppcheck warnings
- Looking at including [building codes](https://github.com/mantidproject/buildingcodes) for `os.path` with pre-commit

# Action Items

## Gigg
- Find date that works for everyone, and add a release party to this
- Create a set of slides covering: what we've done, preview of roadmap for next iteration, upcoming large process or tech changes.
- Add Peterson + Vardanyan as interested parties to these discussions

## ISIS Facility
- Ensure all current roadmap items are put on the Roadmap board
