TWG 7/26/2022
  
Attending: Gigg, Tillet, Koschii, Morgan, Guest

## General updates:
- v6.4 released
- v6.5 target October 3, v6.6 end of February 2023
- New website not released yet. Should be out soon.

## General discussion
### Move all pull requests to conda-based environments?
-	No DEB or RPM releases in the future. Still available in the nightly versions
-	ORNL still uses RPMs
### New technical debt label.
-	Conflation of maintenance and technical debt
-	Use for only things that com about from issues introduced by temporary fixes
-	Is this more applicable to the core team? Are most things technical debt?
### Removal of MPI work introduced by ESS
-	Unused and complicating the code.
-	Is anyone using it? Current consensus says no.
-	No scope as to the effort required to remove it.
### Coding standards and modernization for new code
-	Python type annotation
		Likely to be mandatory for new code
-	std::filesystem in place of Poco
-	Using non-owing view types e.g. std::string_view
-	How to best document and communicate the desired standard?
  -	Training? Technical debt?
  -	One page for code modernization and standardization.
  -	Practices to break out of old habits. Put in the code review step with appropriate link?
  -	Once coding practice at a time, e.g. Python, C++
- Write one standard for new developers. Offer new alternative of old ways of doing things.
- Training should come first using training sessions. Guidance for how to use it effectively. Focus on specific topics in theses sessions to generate interest. Rotate between different facilities driving the topic.
### NOBUGS 2022 Abstract August 26, Onsite September 3, Remote option available
