#  SWG Minutes

**2021-05-26 UTC 11:00-13:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova

* CSNS:
  * Xiaozhi Zhan
  * Hanqiu Jiang

* ESS:
  * Judith Houston
  * Jon Taylor (Acting Chair)

* ILL:
  * Charles Dewhurst
  * Miguel Gonzalez

* JCNS:
  * Absent

* PSI:
  * Joachim Kohlbrecher

* ORNL:
  * Douglas Abernathy
  * Mathieu Doucet

* STFC:
  * Pascal Manuel
  * Lamar Moore
  * Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair)
  * Daniel Murphy (Secretary)

* TWG
  * Martyn Gigg (TWG chair)
```

### Icebreaking

- Anna noted that a lunar eclipse was occurring in Australia during the meeting.
- Also, after the roundtable of introductions, Jon noticed the significant number of SANS scientists in the group.

## Electing a New Chair

- Jon opened the floor for anyone to propose themselves as the new chair for the SWG. **Anna Sokolova** was voted in unanimously as the new chair!!

## What is in a roadmap?

- Lamar explained that a roadmap should contain the significant pieces of work with the intended timeline for tackling this work. Then, hopefully, facilities with similar intended work can discuss if they can collaborate on a joint project.
- *Anna asked what counts as a large enough piece of work to include on the roadmap?*
   Pascal said that significant pieces of work that should be included on the roadmap will take at least a few months and may be of interest to the other facilities.
- *Doug asked how much filtering should be done? For instance, are only the projects that end up going into Mantid worth discussing?* Lamar thinks that the discussions have value even if they are simply concerned with data reduction rather than exactly fitting into Mantid, but some indication of whether they may fit into Mantid is useful.
- Jon expressed that the roadmaps don’t need to be set in stone. They are simply a good way to inspire and empower collaborative planning that suits different facilities and their resourcing. He also liked how some of the circulated roadmaps point out which instruments at their facility use, and intend to use, Mantid for their data reduction.

## Current State and Scope

- Charles was surprised that lots of instruments still don’t use Mantid. Many in the group thought it would be worthwhile to discuss further what are the sticking points holding Mantid back from being used more widely.
- Mathieu asked what should Mantid do, and should the scope be defined? Maybe this is the reason many instruments at some facilities don’t utilise Mantid.
- Lamar The impact of Mantid on the Neutron Science Community will be found out in the phase 2 of the Mantid review.
- Martyn described how the current releases occur every 4 months and so the Technical Working Group (TWG) meeting roughly monthly to discuss roadmaps that concern the upcoming releases. In contrast, in this group (SWG) roadmaps are concerned with important future work that may last for a few releases (8+ months). The TWG can then analyse the work that SWG proposes and then plan how/if it could be executed.
- Stephen inquired whether the Data Analysis tools in Mantid (for Indirect and Muons) are beyond the Data Reduction scope? This is not an easy question to answer and it was agreed that the division between reduction and analysis has been different for different disciplines.

## Current Roadmaps

* ESS
    - Judith outlined how ESS are developing Scipp which is a new software library that utilises Mantid. It was inspired by the need for greater performance and the aim to have a common workspace (data) type. Currently, Mantid is used to load in Nexus data and then is converted into a Scipp workspace.
    - It was mentioned that simply implementing these features into Mantid would have required an overwhelming amount of resource, and the fewer constraints on Scipp have allowed this project to progress.
    - A discussion of the unique aspects of Scipp and why they took an approach separate from Mantid would be interesting. This may be good to discuss at a user meeting.

* ISIS
    - Lamar shared the chart demonstrating the commitments and intended timescales for different Data Reduction tasks, such as creating a new fitting engine. Some of the projects are dependent on the completion of others, but of course this forward-looking plan can be somewhat flexible. Also, in long-term planning ISIS will need to prepare for the next wave of Instruments in the Endeavour project.

* ILL
    - Miguel explained that they intend to have 20 instruments using Mantid by 2023. As they have lots of demand on visualisation, he was encouraged by other facilities' intentions for visualization of SANS data.
    - Doug identified that (similarly to ORNL) triple axis data reduction does not utilise Mantid and is also not planned work at ILL. Miguel said that it hasn’t been considered worth the effort to implement this in Mantid, based on their limited resources.

* ANSTO
    - Anna gave an overview of the instruments that use and intend to use Mantid. Some of the planned work to allow other instruments to use Mantid involves creating a GUI, which relies on a fraction of one developers time. Anna also wants to check the awareness of the Diffraction instrument scientists with the capabilities of Mantid.
    - Doug also spotted that Triple Axis instruments were also present at ANSTO (as well as ORNL and ILL), but not supported by Mantid.

* CSNS
    - Hanqiu explained that 3 instruments are currently running at CSNS and new instruments, which are under construction, will use Mantid. Current work involves creating an interface for workbench, being worked on by 3 developers.
    - Lamar made CSNS aware of [Mantid Imaging](https://mantidproject.github.io/mantidimaging/index.html), which is a separate project that may be of interest to them.
    - Hanqiu and Doug discussed TOF-to-d conversion with higher resolution. This could be a large project worth collaborating on, which ISIS also showed some interest in.

* ORNL
    - Doug dicussed the current model at ORNL, involving computational instrument scientists and a greater emphasis on the requirements.
    - The large pieces of work Doug is aware of are improving instrument calibration and a new Imaging instument called Venus coming in 2 years. Beyond that, a new target station is also planned. Currently, ORNL utilises automatic data reduction on many instruments.

## How to act on commonalities?

- *Pascal asked, now there are some areas of overlap, how do we move forward on these? What is the process of communicating with developers? Is this the point at which we communicate with the TWG?*
- Miguel said we create a common roadmap with some timelines and priorities and finally the TWG can decide what is feasible.
- Lamar added that the SWG needs to take away the actions to ask what the scientific blockers and expectations are. This should ensure that the tools that are developed collaboratively are actually are used. Miguel added that the details should be discussed in sub-committees.
- Anna asked who would coordinate collaborative projects? Jon mentioned that would at least depend on how each facility resources their contribution to the collaborative project.
- Lamar and Jon mentioned that resourcing and feasibility would be discussed between the TWG and SWG, but there may be some intermediate steps in merging the common scientific roadmap into the technical roadmap.
- Pascal pointed out that all members should look for commonalities in other facilities' roadmaps and they could o potentially discuss them further outside of the SWG.  Anna mentioned that it would be nice to have a more general update to the SWG on the commitments and plans that facilities make to collaborative work.

## Meeting Frequency

- Pascal proposed the SWG to meet once a month to get off the ground. Then reduce to roughly quarterly. The next meeting should be around the end of June.

## User/Developer Meeting

Stephen proposed that a virtual user meeting could take place across two days, maybe in early September. Discussions and presentations could focus on the Scientific Roadmaps with some input from TWG. Other worthwhile topics include the changes to the Governance Model and discussing the planned phase 2 review on the impact of Mantid. A doodle poll may help secure dates that suit all facilities, although Stephen is open to views on when the user meeting should be.

# Actions

## ORNL, JCNS, PSI - Facilities without a roadmap
- Facilities that have not provided a roadmap are asked to circulate one before the next meeting.

## SWG members
- Read each others roadmaps and identify common areas.
- Consider how to turn commonalities in roadmaps into planned collaborative projects?

## Anna
- Provide updated version of ANSTO roadmap in a few weeks.

## Daniel
- Send poll to organise the next meeting in a month!
- Upload all circulated roadmaps (except ANSTO) to the [Roadmap repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap)
- Make CSNS (and whole group) aware of Mantid Imaging.

# Next Agenda

- Welcome Anna as the new SWG Chair
- Spend ~10 mins on each roadmap and identify commonalities.
- Discuss how to create a common scientific roadmap.
- Discuss how we collaborate and move forward on these commonalities.
