# SWG Minutes

Date: **2021-09-29 UTC 11:00-13:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova (Chair)

* CSNS:
  * Hanqiu Jiang

* ESS:
  * Judith Houston

* ILL:
  * Miguel Gonzalez
  * Gagik Vardanyan

* JCNS:
  * Marina Ganeva

* PSI:
  * (Absent)

* ORNL:
  * Douglas Abernathy

* STFC:
  * Pascal Manuel
  * Stephen Cottrell (User Meeting Chair)
  * Lamar Moore
  * Martyn Gigg (TWG Chair)
  * Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```

# Meeting Agenda

- Discuss plans for upcoming User meeting
- Discuss any comments on the common roadmap
- Any ideas about more effective ways to communicate and progress on roadmaps

------------

# Minutes

## User Meeting Plans
- Discussed the proposed agenda for the Mantid User Meeting: https://www.mantidproject.org/Category_Users_Workshop_2021.html
- Steve recieved confirmation from facilities on their speakers for scientific updates. He will follow up with PSI.
- Martyn suggested adding Mantid Imaging into the other projects slot on the second day.
- Miguel showed an interest in SANS reductions beyond Mantid at PSI and ORNL and hopefully these can be discussed at the user meeting.
- Anna and Marina suggested that PSI and ESS talks should be grouped before the break, as their reductions are separate from Mantid and
  this would allow questions to be raised in the breakout room sessions.
- Finally, Steve asked Anna to give an update on the outputs from the SWG and the identified common themes at the User Meeting.
- Anna asked for an SWG meeting in mid-late November to catch-up before the User Meeting.

## Common Roadmap + How does the SWG work with tasks
- Pascal highlighted that Spin Echo was a common interest amongst facilites, but there was no understanding of how serious this interest was.
  How much of a priority is this area for each interested facility?
- Lamar offered his understanding that the common projects can be passed to the TWG, who will scope the project and consider available resources.
  `The SWG define critical and common projects and the TWG scope and resource them.`
- Miguel and Marina pointed out the importance of noting what roadmap tasks are current / future and what is a priority, respectively.
- Pascal offered to create document with a table where each facility can vote on their interest in each common roadmap task.
- Martyn breifly shared the TWG project board where they organise tasks for upcoming releases: https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap/projects/1
  These may or may not be shared inter-facility tasks.

# Actions

## SWG Members
- Update Roadmaps with any new items by 1st November.
  Any idication about current / future work and which tasks are higher priority would be great.

## Anna
- Convert Common Roadmap spreadsheet to google sheet
- Update Common Roadmap spreadsheet with any updates after 1st November.

## Pascal
- Create and circulate Table for facilites to vote on common areas of interest

# Next Agenda

- Catch-up before User Meeting
- Identify the most common areas of interest worth sharing at the User Meeting
