# SWG Minutes

Date: **2021-07-02 UTC 11:00-13:00**

**Attendees:**
```
* ANSTO:
  * Anna Sokolova (Chair)

* CSNS:
  * Xiaozhi Zhan
  * Hanqiu Jiang

* ESS:
  * Judith Houston

* ILL:
  * Charles Dewhurst
  * Miguel Gonzalez

* JCNS:
  * Joachim Wuttke

* PSI:
  * Joachim Kohlbrecher

* ORNL
  * Douglas Abernathy
  * Mathieu Doucet

* STFC:
  * Pascal Manuel
  * Lamar Moore
  * Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```

# Initially Proposed Agenda

-    Spend ~10 mins on each roadmap and identify commonalities.
-    A discussion if there are relatively small items which can be put into the Roadmaps.
-    Discuss how to create a common scientific roadmap?
-    Discuss how we collaborate and move forward on these commonalities?
-    User Meeting discussion, if time permits.

# Actions from Previous Meeting

### ORNL, JCNS, PSI - Facilities without a roadmap
- Facilities that have not provided a roadmap are asked to circulate one before the next meeting.

### SWG members
- Read each others roadmaps and identify common areas.
- Consider how to turn commonalities in roadmaps into planned collaborative projects?

### Anna
- Provide updated version of ANSTO roadmap in a few weeks.

### Daniel
- Send poll to organise the next meeting in a month!
- Upload all circulated roadmaps (except ANSTO) to the [Roadmap repository](https://github.com/mantidproject/roadmap)
- Make CSNS (and whole group) aware of Mantid Imaging.

# Any Other Business

------------

# Minutes

## Brief Discussion of Individual Roadmaps

- At ANSTO Powder and Single Crystal are interested in using Mantid. Anna asked how do they reach out to a knowledgeable person? How does Mantid induct in a new user? New scientists to Mantid could arrange some sort of introduction to the software by one of the larger contributing facilities.
- Martyn suggested using the SWG mailing list to find the correct person to engage with.
- Mathieu suggested that how Mantid engages new scientists should be on the collective roadmap. This should define where we want the project to go rather than just instrument updates. e.g. Further we could look at the Numpy or (Pandas)[https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/development/roadmap.html] roadmaps.

## How to progress on Commonalities

- Doug mentioned that many facilities are looking at Single Crystal updates.
- Hanqiu also pointed out that GISANS seems to be a common connection.
- Lamar suggested facilities with commonalities discuss the details of their plans and feedback to the SWG.

- Lamar proposed a matrix of facilities and their areas of interest. A diagram like this will help to focus conversations on commonalities and aide the interest of other facilities.
  Anna has offered to produce such a matrix after giving facilities a few weeks to finalise their roadmaps.

- Joachim K outlined the current situation at PSI (in the absence of providing a roadmap). PSI use Mantid for 2 instruments. Their team develop their own Python scripts rather than develop on the large Mantid codebase. Joachim K believes that some of the motivation behind keeping their Python scripts separate from Mantid is to be able to automatically use metadata to assign the correction measurement to each sample, which may not currently be possible in Mantid. The developers preferred the lightweight approach of using Python scripts outside of Mantid but are planning on making them publicly available.

- Mathieu asked how does Mantid make it easier for scientists to use Mantid, as PSI and ORNL are adding on their own packages for some reduction areas.
- Mathieu asked, what is the common roadmap going to contain? Should their be a focus on GUI or framework? Most likely, facilities would rather collaborate on framework updates and implement their own specific GUI. Martyn agreed that collaborating on the core algorithms and building blocks is more useful and more likely, as GUIs are often subjective and different facilities might want their own. Martyn said that our move to installing with Conda will make it easier to chop it up.


## Small items on Roadmaps

- Anna encouraged that it shouldn't matter how large or small an item in a roadmap would be. She thinks that all items should be added and if items are too small or unimportant then they can be discarded later.
- Anna asked can all roadmaps be checked and can any new small items also be added. Please, have this completed in the next 2-3 weeks. After this Anna will put together a commonality matrix.

## User Meeting and Engaging New Users
- Lamar and Mathieu discussed that the scope of Mantid and how to introduce and engage new people should be captured. We have to identify what are the problems are before we can try to fix them!
  Lamar suggested that the user meeting can be used as a vehicle to engage new people.
- Martyn pointed out that there is there is some tension between members discussing what project they want to work on and what is the scope of Mantid. These are separate discussions that shouldn't steal the focus away from defining roadmaps of proposed work.

- The User Meeting is currently suggested for near start of September, but there is no further progress beyond the shared document.
- Pas said that it would be good to propose speakers for the Mantid User Meeting who currently don't use Mantid.

- The group agreed that September may be too soon to correctly organise the User Meeting. The current plan is for each facility in the SWG to present a 10 minute talk.
- Martyn said that parallel sessions for some advanced updates and others of demos of basic features of Mantid for new users could work well.
- Judith and Anna don't like the idea of parallel sessions, but Lamar thinks just 2 streams could work.
- Miguel thinks the current program is good and they could be a Mantid Introduction, possibly on a separate day.

# Actions

## SWG Members
- By Friday 16th July, Check roadmaps are updated with all items, including anything small.
- After the Common Map/Matrix is completed, members should analyse and express any further interests they have.

## Anna
- After 16th July, Anna will put together a Common Map of the common goals across different facilities.

## Stephen
- Do you accept the proposals of the SWG to:
  -  A) move the User Meeting back by ~1 month?
  -  B) To add a Mantid Introduction (possibly adding an extra day to the User Meeting) for potential new users?
