
# Mantid TWG Meeting 08/15/2023
Attendance: Guest, Foxley, Hampson, Perenon, Peterson

## Agenda
- Python 3.10 package build for all OSs (Tom)
  - Remove quasielasticbayes from Windows (only for 3.8)
  - Will work on updating package to 3.10
  - Mantid will likely drop support for v3.8 in upcoming relases
- Mantid v6.8 may or may not support Python 3.8
  - Some Fortran code will need to be updated in order to drop v3.8
  - Fortran package is quasielasticbayes (f2py)
  - Check by next Friday 08/25 as go/no go for dropping v3.8
- New Mac OS now working on all PRs (Sarah)
- Build support will drop at the end of October beginning of November will be unavailable (STFC maintenance)
  - Must keep on the release schedule for v6.8
  - Possibility to get external runners at other facilities?
- NeXus file refactoring (Tom on behalf of Rachel)
  - Load more information from NeXus files without loading some information
  - Refactor Nexus loaders to avoid slowing down `LoadEventNexus` using base classes
  - Looking at Nexus loading in general to improve performance hdf5 descriptors.
  - Asking for attributes existing is slow
  - Scraping Nexus completely? Blocked by hdf4
  - Much faster than Nexus API (Remi)
  - Less dependencies.
  - Potential topic at developer meeting
  - Other file format writers?
- New developer pipeline
  - *Boolean Jenkins to run only certain tests (ideal solution)*
  - Stop pushing to pull requests (8 hours computing time)
  - Control builds by commit message?
  - Precommit runs twice
  - Windows/Linux/Mac all run simultaneosuly
  - Linux should run first
  - One test fails should possibly end all other pipelines.
  - *Needs further investigation*
- Risk register (push discussion to next TWG)
  - Use across faciltiies
- Community standards in GitHub
  - Similar to PR/Issue template

## Mantid developer meeting
- October 16-18, 2023
- SNS central laboratory and office building
- Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA
- [Technical Working Group](https://github.com/mantidproject/governance/tree/main/technical-working-group)
- Agenda TBD
- Virtual option still requires PAS requests
   - All virtual attendees in the morning
   - Submit all virtual atendee names (required)
- Model after [2019 agenda](https://archive.mantidproject.org/Category_Developer_Workshop_2019.html)
  - Mornings talking
  - Afternoons doing
  - Developer mixer (advent of code working round robin)
  - Discussion on code camp items (most annoying, most satisfying)
  - Short talks with diverse and informal presentations
  - How-to tutorials
    - MVP
    - Performance benchmaring
    - Buidling packages
    - Workspace index spectrum index detector index
    - Too many algorithms names.
    - Workspace properties
  - Conduct and present surveys
